# docs/cypress/tests/ui/README_2025-07-14_16-27-19.md

## Overview
The `ui` folder is an essential part of the project's overall testing infrastructure, dedicated to ensuring the reliability and accuracy of user interactions and user interface functionalities within the web application. Each file in this folder utilizes Cypress, a JavaScript end-to-end testing framework, to automate tests for various application features, including authentication processes, bank account management, transaction handling, notifications, and user settings. Collectively, these test suites not only help maintain smooth functionality and user experience but also safeguard against regressions and integration issues in complex systems.

## Usage
To use the tests within the `ui` folder, ensure that Cypress is installed and configured in your project. Execute the tests by running Cypress commands in your terminal, allowing the framework to simulate and verify user interactions and system behaviors specified in each test file:

1. **Install Cypress**:
   ```sh
   npm install cypress
   ```

2. **Run Tests**:
   Use the following command to open Cypress and run tests interactively:
   ```sh
   npx cypress open
   ```
   Alternatively, for headless test execution:
   ```sh
   npx cypress run
   ```

3. **Select Specific Tests**:
   Navigate to the desired test file in the Cypress Test Runner or provide the specific file path in the `cypress run` command.

## Useful details
- **Authentication Tests**: Files like `auth.spec.ts`, `auth0.spec.ts`, `cognito.spec.ts`, `google.spec.ts`, and `okta.spec.ts` focus on ensuring secure login, onboarding, and logout processes across different authentication platforms.
  
- **Transaction Tests**: Several files (`new-transaction.spec.ts`, `transaction-view.spec.ts`, `transaction-feeds.spec.ts`) validate transaction creation, viewing, filtering, and interaction functionalities like comments and likes.

- **Bank Accounts Tests**: The `bankaccounts.spec.ts` file is dedicated to testing functionalities related to bank account creation, validation, and onboarding.

- **Notifications Tests**: The `notifications.spec.ts` file ensures accurate generation and display of user notifications based on different interactions within the application.

- **User Settings Tests**: The `user-settings.spec.ts` file checks for correct rendering and functionality within the user settings panel, including validation handling and updates.

Overall, the `ui` folder's comprehensive suite of tests plays a pivotal role in maintaining the integrity and robustness of the web application's features, ensuring seamless user experiences and functional consistency.